Extended README with basic documentation (#20)
dynatrace-oss/opentelemetry-exporter-go: README.md

# OpenTelemetry Go exporter for Dynatrace

This is the home of the OpenTelemetry Go exporter for Dynatrace. This package allows you to export spans to Dynatrace
using the OpenTelemetry API.

This package is provided as a "core package", meaning that no platform-specific span attributes are automatically
provided, which might be required by Dynatrace in order to enable service detection and correlation.

Please refer to the [Dynatrace documentation](tbd) for how to set up tracing for Google Cloud Functions with Go using
this package.

## Prerequisites

You need a Dynatrace environment to export your spans to.

For platform-specific prerequisites, please refer to [Prerequisites](tbd).

## Getting started

> 
> Follow [the instructions](https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/setup-and-configuration/setup-on-cloud-platforms/google-cloud-platform/opentelemetry-integration/opentelemetry-on-gcf#choose-config-method)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This README file just contains a very brief quickstart code sample. The main documentation of this package can be found in the [Dynatrace Documentation](tbd).

Follow [the instructions](https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/setup-and-configuration/setup-on-cloud-platforms/google-cloud-platform/opentelemetry-integration/opentelemetry-on-gcf#choose-config-method)
```

on how to set up the Dynatrace configuration for your project by using a config file or environment variables. An error will be returned during the TracerProvider instantiation if the config cannot be found.

1. Import the package into your Go project:
    ```shell
    go get github.com/dynatrace-oss/opentelemetry-exporter-go/core
    ```
2. Create a Dynatrace TracerProvider and TextMapPropagator:
    ```go
    import (
        "go.opentelemetry.io/otel"
        dtTrace "github.com/dynatrace-oss/opentelemetry-exporter-go/core/trace"
    )
   
    // create a TracerProvider

>     tracerProvider, err := dtTrace.NewTracerProvider()

Reviewer: Also show the call to `Shutdown` please, maybe even with `defer`. That way we prevent spans from getting lost.

>     // optionally handle error

Reviewer: I think it's not optional, unless SetTracerProvider handles `nil`?

    otel.SetTracerProvider(tracerProvider)

    // create a TextMapPropagator
    propagator, err := dtTrace.NewTextMapPropagator()

>     // optionally handle error

Reviewer 2: the same, please add handling of the error here

    otel.SetTextMapPropagator(prop)
    ```
3. Use the OpenTelemetry API as you normally would to create spans:
    ```go
    // otel.GetTracerProvider() will now return the DtTracerProvider that was created previously.
    tracer := otel.GetTracerProvider().Tracer("example tracer")
    ctx, span := tracer.Start(context.Background(), "example span")
    // do something
    span.End()
    ```

## Support

Before creating a support ticket, please read through the [documentation](tbd).

> If you didn't find a solution there,
> please [contact Dynatrace support](https://www.dynatrace.com/support/contact-support/).

Reviewer: How do we deal with GH tickets? Maybe add a note like:

```suggestion
If you didn't find a solution there,
please [contact Dynatrace support](https://www.dynatrace.com/support/contact-support/).

There are no SLAs for GitHub tickets.
```

(assuming that's true)
I think it would still be good to keep GH issues open unless we find they are misused, they might be good for trivial issues that users wouldn't report at all otherwise.

# OpenTelemetry Go exporter for Dynatrace

This is the home of the OpenTelemetry Go trace exporter for Dynatrace. This package allows you to export spans to Dynatrace
using the OpenTelemetry API.

This package is provided as a "core package", meaning that no platform-specific span attributes are automatically
provided, which might be required by Dynatrace in order to enable service detection and correlation.

Please refer to the [Dynatrace documentation](https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/setup-and-configuration/setup-on-cloud-platforms/google-cloud-platform/opentelemetry-integration/opentelemetry-on-gcf-go) for how to set up tracing for Google Cloud Functions with Go using this package.

## Prerequisites

You need a Dynatrace environment to export your spans to.

> We currently only offer support and documentation for using this package on Google Cloud Functions (GCF). For GCF-specific prerequisites, please refer to [Prerequisites](https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/setup-and-configuration/setup-on-cloud-platforms/google-cloud-platform/opentelemetry-integration/opentelemetry-on-gcf-go#prerequisites).

Reviewer: Can we word this more strongly:
```suggestion
This package is currently only supported in specific documented scenarios on Google Cloud Functions (GCF). For GCF-specific prerequisites, please refer to [Prerequisites](https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/setup-and-configuration/setup-on-cloud-platforms/google-cloud-platform/opentelemetry-integration/opentelemetry-on-gcf-go#prerequisites).
```

## Getting started

This README file just contains a very brief quickstart code sample. The main documentation of this package can be found in the [Dynatrace Documentation](https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/setup-and-configuration/setup-on-cloud-platforms/google-cloud-platform/opentelemetry-integration/opentelemetry-on-gcf-go).

> Follow [the instructions](https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/setup-and-configuration/setup-on-cloud-platforms/google-cloud-platform/opentelemetry-integration/opentelemetry-on-gcf#choose-config-method) on how to set up the Dynatrace configuration for your project by using a config file or environment variables. An error will be returned during the TracerProvider instantiation if the config cannot be found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow [the instructions](https://www.dynatrace.com/support/help/setup-and-configuration/setup-on-cloud-platforms/google-cloud-platform/opentelemetry-integration/opentelemetry-on-gcf#choose-config-method) on how to set up the Dynatrace configuration for your project by using a config file or environment variables. An error will be returned during the TracerProvider instantiation if the configuration cannot be found or is incomplete.
```

> 1. Import the package into your Go project:

Reviewer: Install instead of import?

Author: ```suggestion
1. Install the package into your Go project:
```

    ```shell
    go get github.com/dynatrace-oss/opentelemetry-exporter-go/core
    ```
2. Create a Dynatrace TracerProvider and TextMapPropagator:
    ```go
    import (
        "go.opentelemetry.io/otel"
        dtTrace "github.com/dynatrace-oss/opentelemetry-exporter-go/core/trace"
    )

    // call this once to initialize all required tracing components in your program
    func initializeTracing() error {
        // create a TracerProvider
        tracerProvider, err := dtTrace.NewTracerProvider()
        if err != nil {
            // handle error as needed
            return err
        }
        otel.SetTracerProvider(tracerProvider)

        // create a TextMapPropagator
        propagator, err := dtTrace.NewTextMapPropagator()
        if err != nil {
            // handle error as needed
            return err
        }
        otel.SetTextMapPropagator(prop)
    }
    ```
3. Use the OpenTelemetry API as you normally would to create spans:
    ```go
    // otel.GetTracerProvider() will now return the DtTracerProvider that was created previously, it is safe to type-assert.

>     tracerProvider := otel.GetTracerProvider().(*dtTrace.DtTracerProvider)
> 
>     // create a tracer and spans
>     tracer := tracerProvider.Tracer("example tracer")
>     ctx, span := tracer.Start(context.Background(), "example span")
>     // do something between starting and ending the span
>     span.End()
> 
>     // ensure the DtTracerProvider is properly shut down when you are done creating spans
>     // spans will be flushed, and any spans created after this call will no longer be processed or exported 
>     tracerProvider.Shutdown(ctx)

Reviewer: I don't think it makes sense to call shutdown in the context of the ended span. I also think we should be using a defer statement right after we assign the tracerProvider variable.

```suggestion
    tracerProvider := otel.GetTracerProvider().(*dtTrace.DtTracerProvider)
   
    // ensure the DtTracerProvider is properly shut down when you don't need it anymore.
    // spans will be flushed, and after the deferred call executes, spans will no longer be processed or exported (even if started before)
    defer tracerProvider.Shutdown(context.Background())

    // create a tracer and spans
    tracer := tracerProvider.Tracer("example tracer")
    ctx, span := tracer.Start(context.Background(), "example span")
    // do something between starting and ending the span
    span.End()
```
